4. conclusions 

the original finding after conducting a meta-analysis of 
various  published  results  was  that  blended  learning  is 
learning  that  combines  offline  learning  as well  as online 
learning. 

this can create flexible learning, and can be done at any 
time  in  various  places,  also  where  there  are  interaction 
facilities  and  activities  in  it.  the  application  of  blended 
learning has its own proportion between offline and online. 
before  implementing  blended  learning  in  vocational 
education, it is necessary to pay attention to the things that 
are needed in the implementation of blended learning, such 
as the normal development of the blended learning model, 
application  of  topology,  and  also  knowledge  of  the 
characteristics of the institution. 

in  particular,  vocational  education  must  adapt  to 
vocational education, infrastructure, technology, learning, 
pedagogical principles, assessment of activities and baiting 
processes, interactions, resources, activities, infrastructure, 
culture, management and organization, ethics, and others. 
it is also necessary to develop blended learning stages so 
that they can be more systematic, starting with the stages of 
creating  conditions  for  success,  planning,  implementing, 
and improving with various sub-stages. blended learning 
can also increase the effectiveness of learning in vocational 
education as well as improve hots and skills. 

learning  model 

next,  develop  a  blended 

from 
classifying k-12 blended learning that has four blended 
learning models to choose from, namely the rotation model 
(consisting  of  rotation  model,  lab  rotation,  and  flipped 
individual  classroom  rotation),  flex  model,  self-blend 
model, and enriched-virtual model. however, the rotation 
model is recommended for vocational blended learning. 
from the research results of this blended learning model, 
where vocational education applies blended learning, it can 
be suggested that it is not only limited to face-to-face and 
also  online.  there  are  several  factors  that  must  be 
considered in the development of blended learning, such as 
the proportion that must be correct. it is also hoped that the 
government,  educational  institutions,  universities,  and 
 

teachers  to  be  able  to  develop  a  blended  learning  model 
using existing development stages must also go through the 
selection of a blended learning model from k-12 blended 
learning,  so  that  blended  learning  can  be  found  as  a 
relevant  vocational  education  model,  practical,  and 
effective to apply. 

 

