discussion and future consideration

corporate moocs have been identified as a valuable tool for
businesses and organizations (radford et al. 2014). however,
only a few businesses and organizations are using moocs
extensively, and there is still limited understanding of their
potential as professional learning environments (milligan
and littlejohn 2014). moreover, there is little empirical evi-
dence on the acceptance and effectiveness of corporate
moocs.

the first findings of this study suggest that employees in
businesses have similar reasons to participate in moocs as
students in higher education (berland et al. 2014). content
seems crucial, as there is a special interest in participating in
moocs for bprofessional^ purposes (on-the-job learning pur-
pose, career development learning purpose). corporate
moocs thus are required to focus on specific work-related
issues, which in most cases requires custom-built content and
expert teachers from within the business context. smaller,
work-related content units, sometimes referred to as blearning
nuggets,^ can lead to more flexibility in learning, which then
resembles a process of content curation.

apart from that, the results indicate broad interest in vari-
ous mooc topics, not only those from the professional do-
main. this suggests a general interest in mooc learning and
a positive attitude towards moocs among the population
surveyed.

when it comes to credentials,

the results remain
equivocal. on the one hand, employees expect creden-
tials for participating in moocs. however, they also
doubt their value. moreover, employers do not seem to
honor the credentials and certificates earned through
moocs too much, as they are not linked closely enough
the so-called bmicro-
to job-related learning. here,
credentials^ could represent smaller sets of work-related
skills or competencies more accurately (ifenthaler et al.
2016; jovanovic and devedzic 2015; mah 2016). as a
consequence, the validity of current mooc assessment

practices could be called into question. for moocs in
digital workplace learning, assessment procedures should
be closely linked to work-related learning goals and thus
go beyond mere multiple-choice questions in most cases.
a more ecologically valid assessment might subsequently
lead to a better acceptance of credentials by the relevant
stakeholders (and vice versa), which is the most crucial
factor for the integration of moocs in professional
training programs.

further considerations pertain to the instructional or learn-
ing design of moocs for professional learning. here, it might
be necessary to expand the rigid xmooc model to suit the
demands of digital workplace learning. adaptive learning de-
signs with flexible access points building on prior knowledge
and a choice of content according to learner p