closing remarks

everyone has their own community, in which they naturally learn, develop, and live with
other members, outside their formal educational settings. the authenticity of real-life
interactions and relationships is a required condition for constructivist learning. although
sumi’s online courses did not support her social learning, she spontaneously built a strong
study group with her colleagues at work where she learned and grew as an independent
learner. conversely, oliver had enjoyed and focused on institution-driven social learning
activities in his online courses. however, when the institutionalized online support ﬁn-
ished, he soon felt left alone in his ofﬂine context without any support systems and found it
challenging to become a newly independent (or sole) learner. researchers and instructional
designers need to expand their view of what constitutes the learning environment, to
include distance learners’ real-life situations beyond course. rather than directing their
efforts exclusively towards forming cops inside the online course, designers can help
existing communities in learners’ real-life contexts to become more supportive and sus-
tainable cops. those external cops can offer better situated learning opportunities. jane’s
case, using the double-layered cop model, illustrates an alternative way of conceptualizing
online learning and expanding boundaries of our design and pedagogical practice.

the double-layered cop model stresses three inter-related design principles that can
effectively guide instructional designers’ efforts to make online learning authentically
constructivist. first, students need to be given learning opportunities to construct a clear
theoretical understandings of cop; the term cop should not just used as a euphonious
rhetorical expression referring to any learning communities. second, the course structure
and activities need to explicitly guide students’ attempt to choose and develop one of their
existing communities into a supportive cop using the theoretical understanding. however,
this should be a student-driven process; each student is the agent of the development
process of their professional cop and projects their own identity as a core member of that
external cop. this principle is particularly important given that the notion of cop has been
applied into organizational and institutional contexts with an increasing managerialist
focus. in that process the original insight about the authenticity and spontaneity of learning
in cop has been lost or neglected (cox 2005). third, the challenging nature of building a
cop needs to be clearly shared by all course participants; the development of a course cop
can be fostered by having a shared goal of developing external cops and supporting each
other’s situated learning in the external cops. those suggested principles are certainly
more relevant and applicable to online course design (than face-to-face course design)
considering the common characteristics of online learners; i.e., their simultaneous presence
in both learning and living (working) contexts.

