conclusions and implications for countries and world organizations

this editorial presents the status and challenges and trends in the online education arena in five
regions of the world – north america, europe, south america, asia, asia-pacific, and africa. we
described evolution of online education based on available technology since the days of telegraphy.
at present, universities of usa are facing the challenge of continuously declining enrollments in
their education programs. india, a developing economy from asia, formally experienced online
education only in 2008. recent research proves that country-level factors of india are providing
impetus to the growth of online education in the country, and with the active participation of
governments at all levels, this market is expected to record continuous growth in the coming years
too. middle east countries have been late followers of online education. past research reveals that
low internet penetration, low public esteem for online learning, and lack of online educational
repositories in arabic language are main obstacles to the growth of online education in middle east
countries. australia and new zeeland too have recognized online education to be a potent tool for
peer and collaborative learning and, in a technologically rich context, are witnessing growing
popularity of online education programs. ghana, south africa, and malawi from african countries
lead the online education movement in the continent with the support of government policies
promoting online education.

it is clear from above overview that e-education is getting traction in almost all parts of the world
and is here to stay worldwide. implications for governments and businesses of countries and world
bodies can be summarized as follows:

● telecommunications infrastructure with focus on high bandwidth connectivity has to improve.
advanced countries can help neighboring countries. already this technology cooperation has
been happening with countries like usa, china, and india assisting their neighboring
countries.

● online education quality must be improved and perceived as equal to traditional face to face
(f2f) classroom-based education. this will ensure recognition of online education on par with
the traditional education. ultimately, getting credentials in any mode of education should
become indistinguishable from one another.

● organizations of all types – small and medium size enterprise (smes) or multinational
corporation (mncs), manufacturing or financial, for-profit or not-for-profit, public or pri-
vate – have a need for their employees to get continuing education. it is increasingly being
realized that the best way to get such education is through some form of online education.

journal of global information technology management

239

● which form of online education is the best? that is a million dollar question. at this time, it is
abundantly clear that we ought to combine the virtues of both online (virtual) and offline (f2f)
education. it appears that blended or flipped education can help to strike an optimal balance
between e-education and traditional education. this will help perpetuate a healthy balance
between hi-tech and hi-touch in e-education. this will also avoid harmful effects of addiction
to information technology artifacts like smartphones, the internet, and facebook.

● eventually, globalization of e-education is bound to happen,

just as we have witnessed
globalization of e-mail, e-commerce, and e-government. world bodies like united nations,
world bank, and world trade organization (wto) have to get involved in this endeavor to
establish meaningful standards in curriculum, certifications, students screening, faculty selec-
learning management systems. ziguras (2001) studied e-learning and termed it as
tion,
“educational
institutions expect students to conform to
western models of education and do not understand the cultural traditions. the paper
emphasizes the need for openness to new modes of education like online learning in its various
modes.

imperialism” where transnational

● a major theme originating from almost all countries is that that one model fits all has
clearly not worked. what we need is a right mix of localization, adjustment to cultural
diversity, and technology that include learning management system in the context of lack
of resources and infrastructure in certain parts of the world. also, training of the last mile
trainers and end users with regard to technology seems to be a recurring issue across almost
all such studies.

