conclusion 

 
in conclusion, the information packages of the undergraduate programs of yeditepe university, examined 
here  as  a  case,  generally  reflect  intentions  for  integrating  technology  into  educational  programs.  however,  these 
intentions are not yet very manifested in the programs’ curricula, particularly in the learning outcomes. examination 
the  categories  of  course  goals,  contents,  teaching  methods  and  assessment  processes  shows  that  they  do  not 
adequately  support  the  goal  of  developing  individuals  that  can  effectively  use  technology  as  stated  in  program 
learning outcomes. technology therefore needs to be utilized as a more effective educational tool, particularly in the 
creation of course contents and configuration of the learning process. although it would be unrealistic to expect the 
immediate  and  direct  inclusion  of  the  current  technologies  specific  to  every  field  and  occupation  in  the  related 
education  programs  (other  than  in  a  few  exceptional  cases),  at  least  the  educational  processes  that  aim  to  create 
awareness  of  new  technologies  should  be  configured  according  to  clear  standards,  while  innovative  learning 
resources should also be developed. 

 

copyright by author(s); cc-by 

202 

the clute institute 

journal of international education research – third quarter 2015 

volume 11, number 3 

in  order  for  a  university  curriculum  to  have  a  continuously  developing  structure  capable  of  fulfilling 
today’s  changing  needs,  it  is  necessary  to  ensure  that  it  is  technologically  friendly  and  interdisciplinary.  at  this 
point, big data and new data analysis techniques can help us in curriculum mapping. ‘big data denotes datasets that 
are large, complex, and difficult to store, search, share, analyse, and visualize using commonly available analytical 
tools and methods’ (expanding evidence approaches for learning in a digital world u.s. department of education 
office  of  educational  technology  report,  2013,  p.7).  utilization  of  digital  analysis  and  planning  techniques  by 
universities as tools for regulating education would be useful.  it should also be kept in mind that ‘curriculum design 
is  not  carried  out  in  isolation  but  forms  part  of  an  iterative  cycle  of  market  research,  planning,  development, 
implementation  and  review.  however,  within  some  institutions,  there  may  be  barriers  to  designing  curricula  that 
meet the needs of lifelong learners’ (drysdale, 2012, p. 20). 

 
finally,  as  indicated  by  the  results  of  this  study,  although  technology  has  entered  into  all  fields  and 
programs,  at  least  regarding  learning  outcomes,  it  is  not  yet  adequately  represented  in  the  process  of  learning 
therefore, it needs to be ensured that curricula based on  digital  literacy competencies  prepared according to clear 
standards  are  established  and  evaluated.  if  such  curricula  that  are  founded  on  digital  literacy  are  established  then 
academic competencies and the quality of learning processes will improve. this would allow digital curricula to be 
revised  repeatedly,  quickly  and  economically.  it  would  be  valuable  for  a  future  study  of  this  issue  to  make  an  in-
depth evaluation by interviewing faculty members and students regarding the way their actual courses progress. 
 

