concluding remarks

it is commonly thought that ﬁrms that adopt technologies and
at the same time invest in skills are expected to use the technolo-
gies more effectively and generate greater productivity gains than
those that do not. using the 1998 survey of advanced technology
in canadian manufacturing, which was linked to the annual sur-
vey of manufacturers (1998), we investigated whether a strategic
investment in training in combination with technology adoption is
associated with higher productivity. indeed, we found that ﬁrms
that adopt advanced technologies and at the same time provide
strategic training are, on average, more productive than other tech-

d. boothby et al. / research policy 39 (2010) 650–661

659

nology adopters who, in turn, are more productive than those who
do not use advanced technologies. since strategic training for a
technology is deﬁned as those types of training whose provision
is most inﬂuenced by the technology, the results indicate that the
majority of ﬁrms providing strategic training are pursuing the right
business strategies to use the adopted technologies to best effect,
at least, in terms of productivity performance.

our study conﬁrms the basic ﬁnding of the studies cited in
our literature review—that there are important complementari-
ties between new technology adoption and organizational change
(speciﬁcally training in our study). appropriate combinations of
new technologies and training lead to higher productivity than
adoption of new technologies alone. our data set allowed us to
identify with a high degree of speciﬁcity (the types of technology
adopted and the types of training provided) and to investigate the
types of training that are complementary to a given technology. our
data did not, however, allow us to explore as wide a range of orga-
nizational changes as in some of the other studies, or to examine
the issues of causality that some of these other studies address.

what are the implications of our ﬁndings for government
policies? in our view, these implications concern the need to co-
ordinate policies that provide incentives for technology adoption
and policies that concern training. in their concern to use policy to
increase productivity, governments adopt a wide range of policies
to encourage technology adoption, fund educational institutions
to provide training of various types, and provide a wide range of
programs and incentives to encourage ﬁrms to provide training.23
government policies to encourage technology adoption often
take the form of tax incentives for investment in machinery and
equipment, for example, through provisions for more rapid depre-
ciation. adoption of speciﬁc forms of new technology may be
encouraged through differential tax treatment of investment in
these technologies. another form of government policy to encour-
age technology is investment in related infrastructure, for example,
subsidizing broadband capacity so as to encourage investment in
related information and communications technologies.

each set of those policies in essence aims at increasing the qual-
ity of labour or of capital. in a standard productivity-accounting
framework, they seek to increase productivity by increasing the
quality (hence the effective level) of an input to production.

the complementarities we ﬁnd (and those found by others)
mean that increasing the quality of both labour and capital inputs
in appropriate ways leads to greater productivity gains than
would occur without these complementarities. in a productivity-
accounting framework, these are gains in mfp. the existence of
these additional mfp gains suggests a need to co-ordinate govern-
ment policies to encourage technology adoption and government
policy to increase training, so as to capture these additional gains
from complementarities.

policy co-ordination along these lines is likely to prove a difﬁcult
exercise. government support in each of these areas (technology
adoption and training) is often provided by several levels of govern-
ment and by different departments in the same level government.
government policy for technology adoption and government pol-
icy for training are almost invariably divided between different

departments within the government. the results of this paper and
of the others cited suggest, however, that the potential gains from
complementarities are enough to justify a serious effort of policy
co-ordination in the areas of technology adoption and training.

