5. conclusion 

the development of ict allows new ways of processing of various processes. the digital world enables repeated 
iterations  and  executions  of  tasks  without  noteworthy  effort  by  lower  cost.  these  aspects  are  very  important  in 
education where ict enabled the access to the know-how of the whole human society for everyone anytime from 
everywhere. the immense amount of knowledge stored in the virtual world accessible through the internet represents 
an endless source of wisdom and its unrestricted spread allows advanced progress of knowledge development. 

this  paper  presented  results  stemming  from  survey  research  conducted  in  slovak  republic  analyzing  current 
utilization level of innovative technologies in employee education of organizations with focus on applying virtual 

260 
8 

monika dávideková, michal mjartan, michal greguš/ procedia computer science 00 (2015) 000–000 

monika dávideková  et al. / procedia computer science 113 (2017) 253–260

reality.  it  identifies  the  attitudes  and  perception  of  workers  towards  currently  used  educational  methods,  their 
impressions and their experiences with innovative technologies in education. 

traditional formal and informal educational methods are perceived by respondents as monotonous, protractive, 
time consuming and lacking demonstrativeness leading to insufficient or wrong understanding of taught content that 
make the learning unattractive, demotivate the learners’ from acquisition of knew knowledge and self-development. 
virtual reality creates close digital visualization of the physical artefacts and surroundings that are very close to reality. 
it allows interactive manipulation with objects where the action of the learner triggers events and learns from empirical 
experience, thus by doing. virtual reality allows simulating dangerous and emergency situations or rare circumstances 
and fosters the development of necessary skills to handle such conditions. 

the importance of virtual reality in education is increasing due to its attributes and features and its application may 
foster creative and lateral thinking, accelerate the learning process and motivate employees to sustainable personal 
development and development of skills necessary for success and innovation of organizations. 

